hany Mahmud is in uh is in Rafa in
southern Gaza and now Hy you've we've
been speaking about uh continuing
strikes in southern Gaza um there are
you know concerns of an ongoing
humanitarian catastrophe uh and then
also we've had this news in Israel ban
on Al jazer operations uh inside the
country first though I want to ask you
about the attack on the Karam Abu Salam
Crossing it was a mortar attack and now
this Crossing is going to close what
does that mean for the prospect of
humanitarian Aid accessing
Gaza yes well there been confirmed right
now the crossing that's km en closure is
going to it's effective right now it is
preventing a commercial trative from
getting into the Gaza it's likely to
further complicate the the already uh
difficult humanitarian situation across
the Gaz is trendly here in overcrowded
part of the strip bra City where 1.5
million displaced Palestinians have been
Sheltering inside uh the uh inside Rafa
City this will just increase the
difficulties and this Crossing was used
in the past to allow uh the entrance of
commercial trucks carrying supplies that
were not allowed through the RAF
Crossing as part of the humanitarian uh
Aid getting into the Gaza Strip This
closure came after Israeli military in a
statement it said that it responded to
more attacks and a barrage of rockets
fired at the uh at the uh the Gathering
of Israeli soldier of the near YK K Abu
ham in the Alan Bri in a statement it
said that it targeted the very unit
that's been planning and directing
attacks across Rafa City the closure is
going to further increase the already
difficult situations it's interesting to
see how long this will continue be as in
light of the ongoing blockade on the
entrance uh on the entry of humanitarian
Aid mainly we're looking at Food
Supplies water supplies and medical
Necessities are needed uh for a really
desperate population either in hospitals
or inside evacuation uh centers across
the Gaza
trip
now we were hearing Clips a little bit
we hearing clips a little bit earlier on
today from citizens in Gaza and I mean
you know usually just the the struggle
of daily life and being able to survive
would mean that uh maybe there isn't
much hope in uh political talks that
happen from time to time but the voices
that we were hearing from today seem to
say that they really are uh hoping that
the ceasefire talks will produce some
respite even if it's temporary uh for
them what is the how closely are people
watching these
talks well as events keep evolving in
unexpected way right now not only there
are difficulties in Kyo Netanyahu is AD
of not sending a delegation to Cairo to
further make progress in the talks they
ban on Al jaaz office the attacks on K
Abu Salim and the closure right now all
coming together a prove uh what people
have supressed the cautious optimism
because they know any sudden turn of
events is going to get everybody back to
square zero where there's no progress
made at all people are torn apart right
now they live in the limbo they keeping
an eye on the talk they're hoping right
now even though this hope is started to
vanish now with little by little people
are no longer talking about a ceasefire
deal in which they can go back to their
homes this hopes already vanished the
talks right now is a Poss a possible
expansion of the ground Invasion to ra
city they're getting ready right now
they want to move to the evacuation
zones designated by the Israeli military
despite the frustration that we heard
from people that these are not safe Zone
because you can't create a safe Zone in
a war zone and because of the multiple
failures of the Israeli military of
giving a clear assurance that these are
designated safe zones for people to
evacuate to multiple times people ended
up getting killed inside the is very
evacuation Z so people are not really
helpful right now they just want
something that keeps them alive as
events keep evolving in an unexpected
ways all right thank you very much Han
Mahmud in uh in
Rafa well Bernard Smith joins us live
from rala in the occupied West Bank and
Bernard you know we began the day I
suppose by speaking to hanim mahmuda our
colleague there in Gaza about the the
area continuing to endure intense aerial
bombardments there's also a fear about
famine spreading from the northern to
the southern part of Gaza and then these
Seas fire talks which uh are which
appear to be going nowhere uh then came
this decision by the Israeli cabinet
which met today to impose this ban on Al
jazer operations inside the country has
there been any further reaction to this
have you been hearing anything there in
the occupied West Bank
uh I haven't heard anything particular
about the the closure of alzer's English
and Arabic operations here in the
occupied West Bank uh yet I mean the
reason we are able to be here but we're
not broadcasting from occupied East
Jerusalem or for anywhere else in Israel
is because the ban applies to Israeli
domestic territory this is occupied
territory and for it to be enforced here
there' be need to be some sort of
military order from the military
governor of this part of the occupied
West Bank that is why for the moment uh
we are able to be on air here but the
ban gives the Israeli government in
Israel proper uh permission to
confiscate broadcast equipment to cut Al
jaer off from cable and satellite
companies and to block websites and it's
a 45 day long ban which can be continued
after after that the cabinet has to vote
on it each time uh we understand that Al
jazer are Senior Management from Al
jazer are looking at the options of a of
a legal appeal though to this
ban and we've been speaking about the
the ceasefire talks mediation efforts
that are taking place inside Egypt and
we've seen the Israelis playing down any
prospects for an end to the war though
that continues to be hamas's main demand
that there not just be a temporary
ceasefire but a complete Israeli
withdrawal from the
Strip This has always been the sticking
point uh from the outset between Israel
and Hamas Hamas wanting a complete end
to the fighting uh Israel not prepared
to offer that we're on the second day
now of these of these latest truce talks
in Cairo mediated between Egypt and
Qatar and the US and there seems to be
little sign of any breakthrough Hamas
has said again any truce must end the
war Netanyahu reiterating again that
Israel's aim since the start of the war
is to disarm and dismantle Hamas and
Israel has not achieved those aims nety
has kept repeating that so there's this
offer of this temporary truce perhaps a
40-day truce but nothing more than that
and the release of Palestinian prisoners
and from Hamas you're getting isma Han
saying that they are still keen on
reaching a comprehensive ceasefire that
ends Israeli aggression sees the
withdraw from Hamas and a serious deal
to free Israelis in exchange for the
Reas of Palestinian prisoners remember
that the concern from the Israeli side
from Benjamin nety who particularly is a
a belief from analysts that any
prolonged calm in Gaza will imperil his
position because it will put focus on
his government and his conduct in the
war and the far right whom he relies on
uh to stay in power has said he must
continue with his planned invasion of of
Rafa to Target Hamas in Rafa there on
the south so that is why we are at this
impass despite an enormous amount of
pressure from the Americans from the
Egyptians and from kataar from The
Americans on Israel from the Egyptians
and Qatar on
Hamas and an urgent question Bernard is
the humanitarian Aid the lack of food
that is uh getting into Gaza uh we now
see the United Nations has spoken about
a full-blown famine in the northern part
of the territory and that moving uh
further south we have already seen many
pictures and images of uh emaciated
Starving
Children this attack this mortar attack
on the the car Abu Salam Crossing uh how
much concern is there about how the
closure of that Crossing Point could
affect the delivery of humanitarian
assistance to Gaza
well the Israelis now say that 10
soldiers were injured in that attack
that Hamas has claimed responsibility
for on Kum kamam Abu salum Crossing
three of those soldiers are seriously
wounded and Israel says that has stopped
Aid going in to Gaza it's one of the
principal ways that Aid is getting in
there was some Aid coming in through the
North through the ARs Crossing but caram
abuelem is a main uh Convoy route
already we know that not enough Aid was
getting in anyway just a few hundred
trucks it near before the war there was
500 trucks a day supplying uh G's aid
needs and after that of course those
needs have multiplied considerably so no
it's going to have a considerable impact
on the amount of Aid getting in unless
it's possible to get it in elsewhere Aid
coming in from the air barely scratches
the service there are surface there are
drops of Aid going on but it's it's it's
really not enough all right thank you so
much Bernard Smith in rala in the
occupied West
Bank make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer